hello everyone welcome to the next
lecture in theory of computation and in
this lecture we will be starting with
our next topic that is NFA or
non-deterministic finite automata all
right so let's get
started so in order to understand NFA
let us first recall what were the
properties of DFA or deterministic
finite automata which will help us to
differentiate between NFA and
DFA okay so here we have our
deterministic final automat which we
have already studied before and also
discussed many examples of this before
so here I have taken a diagram of a DFA
which we have already discussed before
and we will be using this diagram as a
reference so deterministic finite
automata the word deterministic it comes
from the word determinism so from the
word itself we should understand that it
is already determined or we have an
assurance and of what do we have an
assurance so in a DFA given the current
state we know what the next state will
be all right so what does it mean
suppose we have a DFA here and suppose
we are focusing on this state that is
State a and it says that given the
current state that is the state a we
know what the next state will be in if I
in the state a and if I get input one I
know that I will go to state B and no
other states and if I get input zero I
know that I will go to state C and no
other states so given the current state
we are sure about what is the next state
on getting particular inputs all right
and then it has only one unique next
state so suppose again I'm seeing for
State a I'm in state a and if I get
input one it goes only to State B and
not to other states right so it has a
unique next state on getting input one
it goes to the next state that is B it
does not go to any other state so on
getting certain inputs each state has a
unique next state right so if I even if
I take for State C for example if I get
input zero it goes to State a and only
to State a on getting input zero it does
not go to any other state other than
State a so it has a unique next state
and it has no choices or Randomness
right suppose I'm in state a and I get
input one it has no other choice than to
go to state B it does not go to any
other choice other than State B there
are no other choices that it has to make
it is sure and it knows that it has to
goes to State
B and it is simple and easy to design
why is it simple and easy to design
because we know that on getting certain
inputs we know to which state we have to
send it so we just have to design it
showing the transition from one state to
another on getting certain inputs so
that was about deterministic finite
automata and that explained the
determinism to us now what is
non-deterministic finite
automata okay so non-deterministic
finite
automata it comes from the word
non-determinism
so it comes from the word nondeterminism
and what does this mean so here I have a
diagram of a NFA which is non
deterministic finite automata so in NFA
given the current state there could be
multiple next States we know that in DFA
given one state there is only one unique
next state but in NFA or determinist
finite automata as I have shown here
given a current state there could be
multiple next States now look at this we
have a state a here and a on getting
input Z let's see how it behaves a on
getting input zero it could stay either
in a itself or it could even go to state
C it can have multiple next States on
getting input zero it could either stay
in a or go to C and let's see on getting
input one what happens on getting input
one a could either go to b or a could
also go to D so it has multiple next
States now the question is how do you
choose to which which state it goes on
getting a certain input because it has
multiple next States
so it says here that the next state may
be chosen at random we may choose the
next state at random just randomly you
can choose it or all the next States may
be chosen in parallel you can either
choose the next state in random or you
can choose all the next state in
parallel that means you could
simultaneously choose all the next
States for a particular input so that is
about non-deterministic final automata
and here you see some different which we
have not seen in DFA that is a edge that
is labeled by Epsilon so what is this
Epsilon I've already taught in the
previous lectures that Epsilon actually
means the empty string so this means
that this state could also accept an
empty string or an empty input and on
taking that empty input it can go to
another state which I call State e so
this concept of
Epsilon it comes only in
non-deterministic final automata it is
not there in our DFA so if you see an
Epsilon or if you see that a state is
going to multiple States on getting the
same input then you should understand
that it is a non deterministic finite
automat so when we take more examples in
the next lectures it will become more
clear to you so I hope this made the
concept of non deterministic finite
automat and you could also see the
difference between deterministic finite
automat and non- deterministic finite
automata thank you for watching and see
you in the next lecture where we will be
seeing more examples of non
deterministic finite automata
[Music]